.TH "CHAPS" "1" "2020-05-29" "chaps-0.1.0-alpha" ""
.hy
.SH CHAPter Split
.PP
chaps - extract chapters from media files
.SS SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[B]chaps\f[R] is a command-line program to split media files
according to ckapters.  It uses FFmpeg and FFprobe to perform such
extraction.  Some functions and features are strongly inspired by
\f[B]youtube-dl\f[R].
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
-h, --help
Show this help message and exit
.TP
-V, --version
Show program's version number and exit
.TP
--restrict-filenames
Restrict filenames to only ASCII characters, and avoid \[dq]&\[dq] and
spaces in filenames
.TP
-o \f[I]TEMPLATE\f[R], --output \f[I]TEMPLATE\f[R]
Output filename template, see the \[dq]OUTPUT TEMPLATE\[dq] for all
the info. [Default: \[dq]%(title)s-%(chapter-title)s.%(ext)s\[dq]]
.TP
-c, --copy
Indicate to ffmpeg that the stream is not to be re-encoded.
.TP
-D, --dry-run
Do not write anything to disk.
.TP
--only-chapters \f[I]LIST\f[R]
Indicate the chapters to extract, \f[I]LIST\f[R] is a comma separated
integer list e.g., 1,2,5. This indicates to the program to extract
only chapters 1, 2 and 5.
.TP
-p, --print-chapters
Prints chapter list.
.TP
-C \f[I]FILE\f[R], --chapter-file \f[I]FILE\f[R]
Use \f[I]FILE\f[R] to get chapters. See \[dq]CHAPTER FILE\[dq] for more
information.
.SS Verbosity Options
.TP
-v, --verbose
Makes the program more talkative, duplicate for more verbosity (e.g.,
-vvv).
.TP
-q, --quiet
Makes the program quiet.
.TP
-d, --debug
Print debug infos.
.TP
-P, --progress
Print progress bar
.SH OUTPUT TEMPLATE
.PP
The \f[C]-o\f[R] option allows users to indicate a template for the
output file names.
It is formated using \f[B]youtube-dl\f[R] flavour.
.PP
Allowed names along with sequence type are:
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]chapter-title\f[R] (string): Chapter title
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]chapter-id\f[R] (string): Chapter identifier
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]chapter-index\f[R] (string): Chapter index
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]title\f[R] (string): Video title
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]ext\f[R] (string): Video filename extension
.SH CHAPTER FILE
.PP
The \f[C]-C\f[R] option allows user to write chapter timestamps in
addition to chapter title in a file and use it to split media
according to those chapters. This is usefull if your media file does
not have any chapter or if you want different chapter
titles/timestamps.
.PP
Each line with a timestamp is parsed and the content of the line
without the timestamp becomes a chapter. This way you can take any
\f[B]youtube comment\f[R] with timestamps, paste it in a file and use
it to split media.
